#LyX 2.0 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 413
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass article
\begin_preamble
\usepackage{fancyhdr}
\pagestyle{fancy}
\fancyhf{}
\fancyhead[RO,RE]{Draft final, \today}
\fancyfoot[c]{\thepage}
\end_preamble
\use_default_options false
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize letterpaper
\use_geometry true
\use_amsmath 1
\use_esint 1
\use_mhchem 1
\use_mathdots 1
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\use_refstyle 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\leftmargin 1in
\topmargin 1in
\rightmargin 1in
\bottommargin 1in
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
ViewServer: View Concentration Data On Google Earth
\end_layout

\begin_layout Author
Sze Tan
\end_layout

\begin_layout Date
\begin_inset ERT
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout


\backslash
today
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Introduction
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
This server runs on the client computer and hosts one or more Google Earth
 sessions.
 It communicates with the 
\begin_inset Formula $\mathrm{P}^{3}$
\end_inset

 server via JSON RPC calls to getData and getPos on AnalyzerServer.
\end_layout

\begin_layout LyX-Code
http://p3.picarro.com/pge/rest/getData?startPos=335&alog=@@Live:FCDS2003
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Line Caching
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Line caching of a file consists of the ability to access a given line or
 set of lines in a file.
 We wish to support slices which return lists of lines.
 Negative indices indicate references to the end of the file
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
A mapping between line numbers and position to seek within the file
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Some cached lines for efficient access
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
We use the Python mmap library to map files into memory for efficient line-based
 access.
 A list of offsets is associated with each file for rapid access to a specified
 line.
 This line offset list is populated lazily.
 Note that when a map is established, its size is equal to that of the file
 at that time.
 To keep track of a growing file, we need to keep making new maps.
 Fortunately, the time taken to make even a large map is small.
 The operating system file cache also helps by buffering recently used sections
 of the file so that accesses after the first are fast.
 
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
